President Obama:
Recently, there have been
signs that the economy is
picking up steam.
Last month, we saw the strongest
job growth in five years,
and have added more than
three-quarters of a million
private sector jobs
in just three months.
But there are still too many
Americans who are either looking
for work, or struggling to pay
the bills and make the mortgage.
Paychecks aren't
getting any bigger,
but the cost of everything from
groceries to college tuition
keeps on rising.
Without a doubt, one of the
biggest burdens over the last
few months has been
the price of gasoline.
In many places, gas is
now more than $4 a gallon,
meaning that you could be
paying more than $60 to fill
up your tank.
These spikes in gas prices
are often temporary,
and while there are no
quick fixes to the problem,
there are a few steps we should
take that make good sense.
First, we should make sure that
no one is taking advantage of
consumers at the pump.
That's why we've launched a
task force led by the Attorney
General that has one job:
rooting out cases of fraud or
manipulation in the markets
that might affect gas prices,
including any illegal activity
by traders and speculators.
Second, we should increase safe
and responsible oil production
here at home.
Last year, America's oil
production reached its highest
level since 2003.
But I believe that we
should continue to expand oil
production in America -- even
as we increase safety and
environmental standards.
To do this, I'm directing
the Department of Interior to
conduct annual lease sales in
Alaska's National Petroleum
Reserve, while respecting
sensitive areas,
and to speed up the evaluation
of oil and gas resources in the
mid and south Atlantic.
We plan to lease new areas in
the Gulf of Mexico as well,
and work to create new
incentives for industry to
develop their unused leases
both on and offshore.
We're also taking steps to give
companies time to meet higher
safety standards when it comes
to exploration and drilling.
That's why my Administration is
extending drilling leases in
areas of the Gulf that were
impacted by the temporary
moratorium, as well as certain
areas off the coast of Alaska.
And to streamline that
permitting process,
I'm establishing a new team
to coordinate work on Alaska
drilling permits.
Finally, the third step we
should take is to eliminate the
taxpayer subsidies we give
to oil and gas companies.
In the last few months, the
biggest oil companies made about
$4 billion in profits each week.
And yet, they get $4 billion
in taxpayer subsidies each year.
$4 billion at a time when
Americans can barely fill
up their tanks.
$4 billion at a time when we're
trying to reduce our deficit.
This isn't fair,
it makes no sense.
Before I was President, the CEOs
of these companies even admitted
that the tax subsidies
made no sense.
Well, next week, there's a vote
in Congress to end these oil
company giveaways
once and for all.
And I hope Democrats and
Republicans come together and
get this done.
The American people shouldn't be
subsidizing oil companies at a
time when they're making
near-record profits.
As a nation, we should be
investing in the clean,
renewable sources of energy that
are the ultimate solution to
high gas prices.
That's why we're investing
in clean energy technology,
helping businesses that
manufacture solar panels and
wind turbines, and making sure
that our cars and trucks can go
further on a tank of gas -- a
step that could save families as
much as $3,000 at the pump.
These are investments
worth making --
investments that
will save us money,
reduce our dependence
on foreign oil,
and protect the health
and safety of our planet.
That's an energy
policy for the future,
and it's what I'll be
fighting for in the weeks and
months to come.
Thanks.